---
title: Installing VMWare Tools for VMWare Workstation 6.5 under openSUSE 11
author: Sathya
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=552
categories:
  - News
tags:
  - bin
  - DE
  - exe
  - file
  - find
  - IM
  - install
  - media
  - mount
  - move
  - net
  - openSuSE
  - openSUSE 11
  - os
  - read
  - rm
  - rpm
  - Screen
  - support
  - SUSE
  - sync
  - tar
  - terminal
  - virtual machines
  - vm
  - VMWare
  - X

---
VMWare Tools are the extra additions which provide little extras such as drag-and-drop, copy paste support, and clock synchronization across the physical system and Virtual Machines.

I was trying to install these in my openSUSE 11 VM, and the install just wouldn&#8217;t proceed. For installing VMWare Tools, generally as soon as you start the VM, you&#8217;re prompted by a tool tip at the bottom of the screen to start install of VMWare tools. This just mounts the CD Image which has the installer for VMWare tools file.

Then you&#8217;re supposed to install the VMWare tools package(there are RPM and .tar.gz versions on the image).While this seems easy, no matter what I tried, I couldn&#8217;t install it.

<!--more-->

To find out what&#8217;s going wrong, opened the terminal, and issued the command

> `rpm -ivh VMwareTools-6.5.0-118166.i386.rpm`

and that gave me the error &#8211; file xxxx conflicts with file xxxx of opem-vm-tools packages &#8211; this one repeated like 5-6 times. This made me go, &#8220;oh boy!!&#8221; (and nostalgic ;-) ). And I set about fixing this.

Incase the error message wasn&#8217;t that clear, there&#8217;s a conflict betweeen the sets of files VMwareTools is installing and the ones already installed by open-vm-tools (don&#8217;t know how these were installed, actually).

So first, to install VMwareTools, I had to uninstall open-vm-tools. Did so by typing

> `rpm -e open-vm-tools`

After that, I proceeded to install the rpm, which went without a hitch. Next was asked to run vmware-config to configure the settings. There I ran into another problem.

> `shaman:/media/VMware Tools # /usr/bin/vmware-config-tools.pl<br />
The following VMware kernel modules have been found on your system that were<br />
not installed by the VMware Installer.  Please remove them then run this<br />
installer again.`
> 
> vmblock
  
> vmxnet
  
> vmhgfs
  
> vmmemctl
> 
> I.e. &#8211; &#8216;rm /lib/modules/2.6.25.5-1.1-pae/misc/.{o,ko}&#8217;
> 
> Execution aborted.

So even though the packages were removed, the kernel modules were not :|