---
title: Game AI vs Traditional AI
author: Sathya
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1136
categories:
  - News

---
However, talking about selling games, they only sell if they’re entertaining.

[&#8230;]

So Game AI needs to beatable, so that players don’t get incredibly frustrated with our games. At the same time, there’s an element of realism required. Soldiers need to act like soldiers, and whilst an “optimal” solution might see a soldier dive from a 5th story window, taking a 90% hit in health doing so, in order to kill an entire squad this isn’t really realistic of how a soldier would act. Whilst that means that a soldier character shouldn’t act like the Rambo example suggests, it also means that they shouldn’t be tactical geniuses either. One of the best examples of this I can give is from Batman Arkham Asylum, in which the player’s Batman character would fight groups of thugs. The thugs would surround Batman and then take it in turns to try to beat him up. If it sounds easy to implement, it is. If it sounds sub-optimal, it is. If it sounds like something the player could easily deal with, it is. Where Traditional AI would see the problem as one of defeating Batman, Game AI instead aims to create a world in which the player is immersed in being Batman, and through that create an engaging and entertaining experience.

via [#AltDevBlogADay » Students : Game AI vs Traditional AI][1].

 [1]: http://www.altdevblogaday.com/2011/07/11/students-game-ai-vs-traditional-ai/