---
title: Welcome to re:Invent 2020 and see you in Neon City
author: Sathya
type: post
date: 2020-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
url: /2020/11/30/reinvent-2020
categories:
  - "Events"
tags:
  - AWS
  - reInvent
---

November end/December is a fairly exciting time for a lot of AWS enthusiasts - it's time for re:Invent, AWS' annual event which brings in tens of thousands of AWS users, enthusiasts, powerusers, customers and more. For the [AWS Heroes](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/community/heroes/), it's also the time to get together, talk, mingle, discuss and debate on all things AWS and more. It's the time where we pack our bags and head off to Las Vegas. Well, usually anyway. This year's not any usual year and the pandemic means that like most events, re:Invent will also be a virtual event.  

### The Virtual re:Invent Hero Experience

Knowing that the in-person experience would not be possible, the AWS Developer Marketing and AWS Hero team sent us Heroes a little surprise. The surprise was very much a shush-shush but some Heroes did a little guesswork with the URLs where we had to submit our address to speculate on what the surprise would be. And soon enough, emails from DHL started flowing in, some folks started getting their gifts and photos started flowing in. 

{{< fancybox "https://images.sbhat.me/ss/neon-city" "neon-city-box.jpg" "Welcome to Neon City" "Welcome to Neon City" >}}
{{< fancybox "https://images.sbhat.me/ss/neon-city" "oculus-quest-2.jpg" "Oculus Quest 2" "Welcome to Neon City" >}}

It was a Quest 2! The VR headset is great - but what more? Turns out the VR headset is preloaded with a custom application called "Neon City". Neon City lets us Heroes build a custom avatar and enter Neon City. Neon City is equivalent to a persistent, MMO (massively multiplayer online) world - only thing is instead of gaming, you get to meet, talk and interact with other Heroes. There's voice chat, meeting rooms for the 'offline' discussions that you don't want to annoy others with, some minigames, a doodle board and what's probably the best part is a virtual theater that you can 'sit' with other fellow Heroes and watch some of the selected sessions live, while discussing on the merits/aspects of it - pretty much like being together for the Keynote physically, but at the comfort of our own houses. 

{{< fancybox "https://images.sbhat.me/ss/neon-city" "neon-city.jpg" "Welcome to Neon City" "Welcome to Neon City" >}}
{{< fancybox "https://images.sbhat.me/ss/neon-city" "pic-with-india-heroes.jpg" "With Heroes from India" "Welcome to Neon City" >}}
{{< fancybox "https://images.sbhat.me/ss/neon-city" "doodle-board.jpg" "Doodle Board" "Welcome to Neon City" >}}

Neon City is incredibly well done and the folks behind the scenes deserve a huge round of applause - it's probably one of the best ways to organize a virtual event (probably not the most cost effective, though). 